## Script

Hello everyone! Today for the podcast I will be covering _Born a Crime_, By Trevor Noah. My name is Neel Redkar, a current sophomore at Dougherty valley, and I'll be your host today! We will analyze the first two parts of the book, and I'll give my opinions on it. Specifically, I will be covering the the different lessons Trevor learns from two different chapters in Part I and Part II and analyze the effects these lessons have in shaping Trevor’s character, perspective, and actions in life.

Starting off, lets look at the main lesson Trevor learns in part one. Take the quote
“even if he never leaves the ghetto, he will know that the ghetto is not the world. If that is all I accomplish, I’ve done enough.” (page 56). This quote from part one summarizes the main aspects of this part, where his mom tries to teach him that he can change the world. This in necessary, because most people in the ghettos never think that there is an outside world where they can have an impact. This shapes Trevors later life, because he goes on to become a comedian, and makes an impact on the entire world. This lesson was needed for him to realize that that sort of impact is possible, and that he can do it.

The second lesson is comes from part two, in the quote “The first thing I learned about having money was that it gives you choices. People don’t want to be rich. They want to be able to choose. The richer you are, the more choices you have. That is the freedom of money.” (page 134). What this means, is that money is important, because it allows you to choose what you want to do. For example, in the book, Trevor made money through selling CD's and was able to choose his food, and other things around him. Without money, you are left with whatever you have, and don't have the choice to go anywhere. You can draw similarities from the lesson learned in part 1, because this also imbued him with the drive for money, that allowed him to get out of the gettos and make large sums of money, which led him to make something out of himself.

The key similarity between the two, is that it broadens Trevor's perspective on life, and how he approaches it. Though one difference in the way he learned the lessons, is that he learned the first one from his mom, through her upbringing, which is unforgettable. The reason for this, is because if you learn something in your upbringing, it uncosniously affects you, and causes you to take actions. In contrast, the second lesson was learned through selling pirated CD's in highschool, which means he may have forgotten about it, because highschool years are commonly filled with many events. Also, he learned about these pirated CD's later on in life, which means that it won't affect him unconsiously, unlike the first.

Overall we learn that lessons from both parts helped form Trevor's life, and that he wouldn't be the same without them. Closing off the podcast, and see you next time!
